community: Add governance page (#175)
unikraft/docs: content/en/community/governance.md

They are assigned to a SIG and are added as a reviewer in the `CODEOWNERS` file of that SIG.

#### Maintainer

Maintainers are responsible for the overall health and direction of the project.
They are knowledgeable about the codebase and software engineering principles.
Their primary responsibility is to ensure that the code is readable, maintainable, and meets the requirements of the project.
Maintainers are expected to review code contributions in a timely manner.
They are assigned to a SIG and are added as a maintainer in the `CODEOWNERS` file of that SIG.
Maintainers are also responsible for helping new contributors to become familiar with the codebase and contributing process.

### Tasks / Projects

The tasks are organized in [projects](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects).
Usually, a project is created for a specific release and contains the tasks that need to be done for that release.

### Contributions

The [contributing](https://unikraft.org/docs/contributing/) section of the website is the main entry point for new contributors.
It contains information about the project, how to get started, and how to contribute.

### Roadmap

> The [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/24/views/35) is a high-level view of the project and is used to communicate the direction of the project to the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects and tasks are brought together in a roadmap.
The roadmap is a high-level view of the project and is used to communicate the direction of the project to the community.

There is a dual view of the roadmap:
* [A web page](https://hackmd.io/@unikraft/HyNdSyAki) created via [HackMD.io](https://hackmd.io)
* [A list of issues](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Akind%2Fproject) tagged `kind/project`

We also keep a [Community Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/24/views/35) as a GitHub project, with collects all current under-development items in the community.
```

### Releases

[Releases](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/releases) are used to provide a stable version of the project that can be used by the community.
Our release process is based on a schedule, where we release a new version every 2 months.

> A detailed view for the release schedule can be found [here](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/24)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release schedule is available as [milestones](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/milestones).
```

This represents an outer-most team and `maintainers-$NAME` and `reviewers-$NAME` representing two sub-teams within `sig-$NAME`.
This means that when you look at at all the Unikraft teams on GitHub, it will create something like this:

```
unikraft
├── sig-alloc
│   ├── maintainers-alloc
│   └── reviewers-alloc
├── sig-test
│   ├── maintainers-test
│   └── reviewers-test
├── ...
└── sig-etc
    ├── maintainers-etc
    └── reviewers-etc
```

Members listed in the `maintainers-$NAME` and `reviewers-$NAME` sub-teams will also be members of the higher-order `sig-$NAME` team but with the corresponding GitHub roles of "maintainer" and "member", respectively.
Members of a `sig-$NAME` team which are neither maintainers nor reviewers will simply be listed with the corresponding GitHub "member" role of the `sig-$NAME` team.

The purpose of organising the teams in this way is to:

1. Allow maintainers and reviewers to have their own internal groups for discussion, and to use the available teams feature of GitHub for their desired purposes for these particular role types;

> 2. Allow for quick reference of the groups of people by their role in any `CODEOWNERS` file and in the CI/CD with the syntax `@sig-$NAME`, or `@maintainers-$NAME` or `@reviewers-$NAME`;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Allow for quick reference of the groups of people by their role in any `CODEOWNERS` file and in the CI/CD with the syntax `@sig-$NAME`, or `@maintainers-$NAME` or `@reviewers-$NAME`;
```

> 3. We can reference all members of the Special Interest Groups, whether maintainer, reviewer or simply as a member with the handle `@sig-$NAME`;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Reference all members of the Special Interest Groups, whether maintainer, reviewer or simply as a member with the handle `@sig-$NAME`;
```

> To join a Special Interest Group, create a pull request on [Governance repository](https://github.com/unikraft/governance) and add new line to the `members:` directive within the relevant team's YAML file, e.g.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To join a Special Interest Group, create a pull request on the [Governance repository](https://github.com/unikraft/governance) and add new line to the `members:` directive within the relevant team's YAML file, e.g.:
```

```diff
+   - name: Your Name
+     github: yourusername
```

Please include a short description as why you would like to join the team in your PR.

### Community Leadership

The Unikraft OSS project is led by a group of community leaders who are responsible for the overall direction of the project.
We have different types of leaders, each with their own area of responsibility.

> The current list of community leaders is:
> - [Răzvan Deaconescu](https://github.com/razvand) - Community Management

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current list of community leaders is:

- [Răzvan Deaconescu](https://github.com/razvand) - Community Management
```

---
title: Governance
date: 2020-01-11T14:09:21+09:00
draft: false
weight: 600
---

## Governance

> This document describes the rules and governance of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the rules and governance of the Unikraft project.
```

It is meant to be followed by all the developers that are contributing.

> 

Reviewer: I would first have a section "## Governance Scope and Terms" and define:
- community members (implemented as GitHub IDs and Discord IDs)
- teams / SIGs (implemented as GitHub teams, Discord roles)
- roles (implemented as GitHub teams, Discord roles)
- reviewers & maintainers (implemented as GitHub PR reviewers and assignees)
- community leadership (currently implemented as meetings with community leaders with given roles)
- tasks / projects / features (implemented as GitHub issues and / or GitHub projects)
- contributions (implemented as GitHub PRs, aggregated in GitHub projects)
- task / project ownership (implemented as GitHub issue assignee)
- roadmap, a collection of features requests (small issues not included) (implemented as GitHub issues, tagged, listed on HackMD)
- releases (implemented as GitHub issues milestones, available on GitHub releases, release notes developed on HackMD)

Then you would detail sections with each of those.

### Values

> Unikraft community is expected to follow the values defined in the [Code of Conduct](https://unikraft.org/docs/contributing/code-of-conduct/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Unikraft community is expected to follow the values defined in the [Code of Conduct](https://unikraft.org/docs/contributing/code-of-conduct/).
```

> Of course, since we are a growing community we strive for kindness, giving feedback effectively, and building a good development environment for all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the community grows, we strive for kindness, giving feedback effectively, and building a good development environment for all.
```
